# Bike Share Analysis
Over the past decade, bicycle-sharing systems have been growing in number and popularity in cities across the world. Bicycle-sharing systems allow users to rent bicycles for short trips, typically 30 minutes or less. Thanks to the rise in information technologies, it is easy for a user of the system to access a dock within the system to unlock or return bicycles. These technologies also provide a wealth of data that can be used to explore how these bike-sharing systems are used.

In this project, we will perform an exploratory analysis on data provided by https://www.capitalbikeshare.com/.
Capital Bikeshare is metro DC's bikeshare system, with more than 4,300 bikes available at 500 stations across six jurisdictions: Washington, DC; Arlington, VA; Alexandria, VA; Montgomery County, MD; Prince George's County, MD; Fairfax County, VA; and the City of Falls Church, VA. Capital Bikeshare provides residents and visitors with a convenient, fun and affordable transportation option for getting from Point A to Point B.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

